# How to implement a Rust concept exercise

This issue describes how to implement a concept exercise for the Rust track.

**Please please please read the docs before starting.** Posting PRs without reading these docs will be a lot more frustrating for you during the review cycle, and exhaust Exercism's maintainers' time. So, before diving into the implementation, please read the following documents:

- [The features of v3][docs-features-of-v3].
- [Rationale for v3][docs-rationale-for-v3].
- [What are concept exercise and how they are structured?][docs-concept-exercises]

Please also watch the following video:

- [The Anatomy of a Concept Exercise][anatomy-of-a-concept-exercise].

As this document is generic, the following placeholders are used:

- `<SLUG>`: the name of the exercise in kebab-case (e.g. `anonymous-methods`).
- `<NAME>`: the name of the exercise in snake_case (e.g. `anonymous_methods`).

Before implementing the exercise, please make sure you have a good understanding of what the exercise should be teaching (and what not). This information can be found in the exercise's GitHub issue. Having done this, please read the [Rust concept exercises introduction][concept-exercises].

To implement a Rust concept exercise, the following files must be added:

```
languages
└── rust
    └── exercises
        └── concept
            └── <SLUG>
                ├── .docs
                |   ├── instructions.md
                |   ├── introduction.md
                |   ├── hints.md
                |   ├── after.md
                |   └── source.md (required if there are third-party sources)
                ├── .meta
                |   |── design.md
                |   |── config.json
                |   └── example.rs
                ├── src
                |   └── lib.rs
                ├── Cargo.toml
                └── tests
                    └── <NAME>.rs
```

## Step 1: Add code files

A shell script is provided for boilerplating a concept exercise, use with `sh boil_exercise.sh <SLUG>`. It will provide unfinished files for step 1 and 2 to review in your text editor of choice. You can also use `cargo init --lib <SLUG> --vcs none` to boilerplate the directory and create all the files manually if that doesn't work.

Of special note are

- `src/lib.rs`: the Rust library file, which is the starting point for students to work on the exercise.
- `Cargo.toml`: the Cargo file. Be aware the online editor does not support editing the `Cargo.toml` so all dependencies must be specified up-front, and the author field should be removed.
- `tests/<NAME>.rs`: this will become the test suite for this exercise.
- `.meta/example.rs`: this should be a working example that passes all tests. Students cannot see this.

## Step 2: Add documentation files

How to create the files common to all tracks is described in the [how to implement a concept exercise document][how-to-implement-a-concept-exercise].

## Step 3: Update list of implemented exercises

- Add the exercise to the [list of implemented exercises][implemented-exercises].

## Step 4: Add analyzer (optional)

Some exercises could benefit from having an exercise-specific [analyzer][analyzer]. If so, specify what analysis rules should be applied to this exercise and why.

_Skip this step if you're not sure what to do._

## Step 5: Add representation (optional)

Some exercises could benefit from having an custom representation as generated by the [Rust representer][representer]. If so, specify what changes to the representation should be applied and why.

_Skip this step if you're not sure what to do._

## Inspiration

When implementing an exercise, it can be very useful to look at already-implemented Rust exercises like the [numbers][concept-exercise-numbers] exercise. You can also check the exercise's [general concepts documents][reference] to see if other languages have already implemented an exercise for that concept.

## Help

If you have any questions regarding implementing the exercise, please post them as comments in the exercise's GitHub issue.

[analyzer]: https://github.com/exercism/rust-analyzer
[representer]: https://github.com/exercism/v3/issues/new/choose
[concept-exercises]: ../exercises/concept/README.md
[how-to-implement-a-concept-exercise]: ../../../docs/maintainers/generic-how-to-implement-a-concept-exercise.md
[docs-concept-exercises]: ../../../docs/concept-exercises.md
[docs-rationale-for-v3]: ../../../docs/rationale-for-v3.md
[docs-features-of-v3]: ../../../docs/features-of-v3.md
[anatomy-of-a-concept-exercise]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gkbBqd7hPrA
[concept-exercise-numbers]: ../exercises/concept/numbers
[reference]: ../../../reference
[implemented-exercises]: ../exercises/concept/README.md#implemented-exercises
